Let's see one of the most common cases that always serve as an example of the strategy
of the blue ocean, which are the curved genesis.
What I intend is that you reinforce your knowledge of the tools of blue oceans.
In addition, you will see that cases like this, when you explain it from the tools of the strategy
of the blue ocean, the key to success is understood much better.
The curved genesis are a very international chain of gyms with North American origin
that have a particularity, which is that they are only for women and are also very focused
on collective classes designed for this target audience, which are usually women of
middle age.
The process I propose is the following.
First, we analyze the sector.
We have to understand very well how the competition works in the sector in which we are.
What do the companies that are in the sector of the gyms do?
Subsequently, what we are going to do is define our target audience, but we are not going
to be a few sheep like the rest of the companies and we are going to address the same customers.
No, we are going to look for other market space in which there is no competition.
And finally, what we have to do is develop a value proposal, a specific value curve
for that target audience of ours.
And let's start.
We are analyzing the sector.
We want to understand what are the competitive factors around which the sector of the gyms
revolves.
As we have said before, what do the gyms invest in to provide value to their customers?
Or what are the factors around which the competition revolves?
Well, the price is clear.
We are going to incorporate them into the strategic picture as we go along.
Another very important factor is the machinery, the facilities, the square meters.
It is also something in which the gyms have to invest a lot because it is very expensive.
Customized attention, the availability that you have in a gym of a monitor is something
that has a huge implication in costs, but also in the value offered to customers.
And finally, the services.
Premium gyms have many amenities services, which are called clean towels
every day, etc.
And here we have the strategic picture in which we have incorporated, as we can see
below, the competitive factors.
We are going to draw the value curves in the sector of the gyms and what we are going to do
is consider that there are two main segments.
There are the premium gyms, like Equinox, an American chain, that if we see the curve
would be above because they have very high prices, the facilities are spectacular, you have
a lot of customized attention, availability of monitors and finally you have a lot of
services.
And the most common gyms, a normal gym, is a little below, but it really offers
the same in less quantity.
Therefore, we could even merge the value curve because in the background everyone competes
the same, to a greater or lesser extent, but everyone competes the same.
Okay.
Well, now what we have to do is identify who we are going to go to.
What are we going to do?
Look for them, go to the same customers as the rest of the gyms?
No, because then we will not be able to create a blue ocean, we will be creating a red ocean,
we will be competing with the rest.
We want to go to another segment of customers.
And in the case of curves, what he has done is, well, if you see this photo, I think it is
very representative of who the curve customers are.
I'm going to give you a piece of information.
A large part of the curve customers would never go to a traditional gym.
This says a lot about the subject and the key to success.
Because Curves has been able to create a new market space, a new demand space.
He has created it from scratch, he has not had to steal it from his competitors, okay?
And in that market space he does not compete with anyone.
Instead, the rest of the gyms all compete to steal customers.
And finally, Curves what he has to do is develop a value proposal that we are going to draw
through the value curve for that segment of customers.
Remember this concept, okay?
Innovation in value.
If you want to create a blue ocean, you have to look for creating more value at a lower cost.
And how do we do it?
Well, we do it with the matriz, he says.
On the one hand, what we have to look for is a cost reduction.
How do we reduce the cost?
Well, what we do is reduce and eliminate cost factors.
Identify some factors that our customers do not value or value less and reduce them
a lot or directly eliminate them, which allows us to reduce costs a lot.
Look, examples.
In the case of Curves, it is that it looks super clear.
The machinery is much smaller than that of traditional gyms.
Much less has been spent on machinery.
There are no running tapes, etc.
The facilities are simpler, they are much simpler.
They are smaller rooms, etc.
In addition, the services offered by the amenities are smaller.
And another fact is that as a consequence of the fact that it is only for women, for example,
it does not have to have two changing rooms, it only has to have a changing room for men.
All this, the factors that we have reduced and that we have eliminated, allows Curves
that its cost decreases a lot.
Here we see it in the value curve so far.
We have the traditional club and we have Curves, which is below in price, in
facilities, in services, in personal care.
In these factors it invests a lot, which allows it to have more margin.
Well, now Curves has the challenge of creating more value for its target audience.
And how does it do it?
Well, what it does is incorporate some factors that until now, create factors, the C of
RICE, which until now the rest of the gyms had never taken into account, which is to limit
it only to women and create collective classes designed specifically for that target audience.
And here we have it drawn in the value curve.
We have added, we have created a new factor, which is this, which the rest of the clubs do not
take into account, as you can see, it does not arrive.
And Curves what it does is offer a high value in that.
Well, as a consequence of the Curves strategy that its blue ocean has created, it does not compete
with anyone else.
It has created a value proposal so disruptive, so different and designed for a segment of
customers that the others do not attend, that it fields its branches in its new market space,
which has allowed it to grow in a few years worldwide, become one of the main
global companies and a huge and millionaire company.